What is Computer? 
Computer is a machine that reads information and data. Also, modern computers run by using programs. Program is a programming language used to run data in a computer. Also, computer needs operating system, the operator of the computer., software as the program of the computer, and the hardware, the organ of a computer.
 
What are the essential parts of computer? The basic parts of a computer to work is monitor, the mouse, keyboard, power cord, and the Cpu itself. But to run a computer properly, you need these things to work: 
The motherboard, also known as the foundation of the computer., the processor(CPU), the heart of the computer. It also executes the program made by the user. RAM (random access memory), the brain of the computer because it reads and stores data., 
the power supply, this is like the glucose of the computer, it generates energy or for the computer to work. And lastly, the hard drive, also known as storage of a computer. 
Video card, also known as GPU can be optional because modern CPU's have built-in graphics and it's called integrated graphics. 

Who are the notable inventors of hardware and software? 
Software developers:
Tim Berners-Lee, the man who made WWW or World wide Web in 1989. WWW is used in all public website that can be accesssed through the use of internet. 
Bill Gates, the man who made Microsoft. Microsoft is the world's largest computer software company. Microsoft is known because they introduced MS-DOS, an operating system that was owned by Bill Gates and Paul Allen to IBM PC, the world's largest computer maker in the world. And they introduced MS-BOS to other companies as well adn that is the reason why they are known until now.
Mark Zuckerburg, the owner of facebook. In 2004, Zuckerburg made facebook for students to match names with photos of classmates. And in 2012, Zuckerburg decided to make facebook open to all internet users. 
Steve Jobs, owner of Apple. He and his friend Steve Wozniak thought to build a first ready made PC. Also, Jobs and Wosniak are known as hackers, they built a device called the telephone blue box, a device used to access free illegal calls in a long distance. 
Sergey Brin, co-founder of Google. They built google as search engine that can access WWW to all users. 

Hardware developers:
Gordon Moore, founder of INTEL. Intel is known for their technologies, the famous tech that was built by Intel is their microprocessor or the CPU that is used for computers. Right now, Intel is also known for the best cpu, in terms of workstations.
Herman Hollerith, the founder of IBM. IBM stands for International Business Machines and IBM is known for their work such as Planar. Planar is the first motherboard used in a perosnal computer. And also,the MDA and the CGA, the first two video cards
Chris Malachowsky, owner of NVIDIA. NVIDIA is known for their remarkable video cards. Chris Malachowsky, Jensen Huang, and Curtis Preim researched about how important graphic-based computing in video games.
Dr. Lisa Su, Chair and Chief Executive Officer of AMD. She worked in IBM for 13 Years until she joined AMD in 2012 as the senior vice president and General manager. 
 
Cite your reference/s 
Tim Berners-Lee(The birth of the Web | CERN. (2024, July 18). https://home.cern/science/computing/birth-web)
Bill Gates (Bellis, M. (2020, January 31). Biography of Bill Gates, Co-Founder of Microsoft. ThoughtCo. https://www.thoughtco.com/bill-gates-biography-and-history-1991861)
Mark Zuckerburg (Jackson, A. H. B. N. S. (2023, September 25). Meet Mark Zuckerberg: founder and creator of Facebook and Meta. Business Insider. https://www.businessinsider.com/mark-zuckerberg)
Steve Jobs (Bellis, M. (2019, July 3). Biography of Steve Jobs, Co-Founder of Apple Computers. ThoughtCo. https://www.thoughtco.com/steve-jobs-biography-1991928)
Sergey Brin (How we started and where we are today - Google. (n.d.). https://about.google/intl/ALL_us/our-story/)
Gordon Moore (Explore Intel’s history. (n.d.). https://timeline.intel.com/)
tHerman Hollerith. (2017, September 15). https://www.computerhope.com/people/herman_hollerith.htm
Chris Malachowsky (Staff, H. C. (2024, April 16). Nvidia: One of Earth’s Most Important Companies. History-Computer. https://history-computer.com/business/companies/nvidia-guide/)
Dr. Lisa Su. (n.d.-b). AMD. https://www.amd.com/en/corporate/leadership/lisa-su.html
